docs: Update e2e tests documentation (#3006)
near/mpc: docs/pytest-deprecation.md

Reviewer: I think we should move this to be a README.md in the e2e-tests crate, or just rename it.

Author: Moved this to README.md

Reviewer: One footgun that would be nice to also document how to configure the tests against a locally compiled sandbox binary, since `near-sandbox-rs` downloads a precompiled binary making it crash on any system that doesn't have a compatible glibc version.

See [our previous conversation](https://nearone.slack.com/archives/C0912BTG51T/p1775044705720109?thread_ts=1774890692.680629&cid=C0912BTG51T) for reference.

I have to explicitly call
```
export NEAR_SANDBOX_BIN_PATH=/home/marten/.cargo/bin/neard
```

before running the tests on my server.

Author: Addressed, and elaborated on possible glibc incompatibility issue as well.

    Blockchain --- B1(near-kit RPC client)
    Blockchain --- B2(Account creation, contract deploy, view/call)
    Node --- N1(Spawn mpc-node binary)
    Node --- N2(Generate secrets.json + start_config.toml)
    Node --- N3(Scrape /metrics, toggle block ingestion)
    Ports --- P1(Deterministic per-test port ranges)
```

### Key design decisions

1. **Real `neard` sandbox, real `mpc-node` binaries.** Each test starts a
   `near-sandbox` process (via the `near-sandbox` crate, which downloads a real
   neard binary) and spawns `N` real `mpc-node` processes built from this repo.
   The mpc-node binary uses its built-in NEAR indexer, which in turn runs its
   own small `neard` peered with the sandbox over P2P — i.e. we exercise the
   production code path end-to-end, including config parsing, P2P networking,
   the indexer, and Prometheus metrics.

2. **RPC-only contract interaction.** Tests never touch the sandbox process
   directly; everything happens through a `near-kit` RPC client. The
   `NearBlockchain` and `DeployedContract` wrappers accept any RPC URL, so
   the same test code could in principle run against a deployed testnet

>    (though this isn't exercised in CI yet).

Reviewer: Thanks for emphasizing this 🙏

3. **Deterministic ports per test.** `cargo nextest` runs each test in its own

>    process, so tests execute concurrently by default. Each test declares a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   process, so tests execute in parallel by default. Each test declares a
```

Author: I think technically "concurrent" is the correct term here. Design itself is concurrent, which allows you to run tests in parallel if you have multicore processor.

   unique `port_seed`; `E2ePortAllocator` maps that seed to a non-overlapping
   range of ports for the sandbox, the mpc-node web/P2P/pprof endpoints, and
   the per-node neard instances. Seeds are centralised as constants in
   `tests/common.rs` to avoid collisions.

> 4. **Support for mixed node versions.** `MpcClusterConfig::binary_paths` takes a

Reviewer: Really excited for cross-compatibility tests :)

   vec of paths; if it has a single entry, all nodes use it, otherwise each
   node uses the corresponding entry. This enables compatibility tests across
   `mpc-node` versions (not yet in routine use, but wired up).

5. **Separate "operator" keys.** Each node account has two full-access keys on
   chain: one used by the mpc-node process itself for its NEAR transactions
   (`node_keys`) and a second key held by the test harness (`operator_keys`)
   for casting votes. Disjoint key sets keep the node's nonce sequence clean
   and let the harness issue contract calls without racing the node.

6. **Crate location.** The framework lives at `crates/e2e-tests/`. Its `src/`
   exposes the components as library APIs; actual tests live in `tests/` and
   are declared via the `[[test]] name = "e2e"` entry in `Cargo.toml`, which
   compiles them as submodules of `tests/e2e.rs` (one binary, one neard
   download, parallel test execution via nextest).

> 

Reviewer 2: This is very well written. Thanks.

Author: Great, I'll take credit for steering Claude to the right direction. :D
